### Motor phase amplitude modulations during imagined movements
Neural activity patterns shift in human motor cortex before and during voluntary movements. Prior work has demonstrated a decrease in relative power in the beta frequency band during sustained movement. Likewise, an increase in relative power in the high gamma frequency band has been found to correlate with the dynamic features of a movement, such as individual finger flexion. These rhythms may indicate the presence of neuronal population dynamics involved in initiating movement.

Despite the widespread use of imagined motor movements for control of brain-computer interfaces, few studies have addressed the neuronal basis of imagined movements. We hypothesized that imagined movement would demonstrate amplitude modulations similar to actual movement across relevant motor areas, albeit with an attenuated response in higher frequency ranges given the absence of actual movement.

To investigate this hypothesis, we reanalyzed electrocortigraphy (ECoG) recordings from Miller et al. (2019) from subjects undergoing monitoring for treatment of medically refractory epilepsy. Subjects performed two tasks involving actual or imagined movement of the hand or tongue. Dataglove or electromyography measurement verified an absence of motor action during imagined movement. Following the original report, we defined six functionally relevant frequency bands from 12-150 Hz. Event related synchrony and desynchronization (ERS/ERD) measurements were determined by relative amplitude changes in respective power spectra during movement initiation. In addition, we calculated correlations between simulated motor movements and phase amplitude modulations across the selected frequency bands.

Movement-related phase amplitude modulations may serve as a more refined measure of movement intent, which can be used as improved control signals for brain-computer interface applications. It may additionally enhance our knowledge of subcortical-cortical and cortico-cortical communication in motor control to serve as a biomarker in health and disease.

##### References:
Miller, K. J., Schalk, G., Fetz, E. E., den Nijs, M., Ojemann, J. G., & Rao, R. P. N. (2010). Cortical activity during motor execution, motor imagery, and imagery-based online feedback. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 107(9), 4430–4435. https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.0913697107

Seeber, M., Scherer, R., Wagner, J., Solis-Escalante, T., & Müller-Putz, G. R. (2014). EEG beta suppression and low gamma modulation are different elements of human upright walking. Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, 8. https://doi.org/10.3389/fnhum.2014.00485

Unterweger, J., Seeber, M., Zanos, S., Ojemann, J. G., & Scherer, R. (2020). ECoG Beta Suppression and Modulation During Finger Extension and Flexion. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 14, 35. https://doi.org/10.3389/fnins.2020.00035